# Data Science E-Books

Here are the books that I have read about data science and machine learning:

* [Intro To Machine Learning with Python](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Intro-To-ML-with-Python): This book is for current and aspiring machine learning practitioners looking to implement solutions to real-world machine learning problems. This is an introductory book requiring no previous knowledge of machine learning or artificial intelligence (AI). We focus on using Python and the scikit-learn library, and work through all the steps to create a successful machine learning application. The methods will be helpful for scientists and researchers, as well as data scientists working on commercial applications. You will get the most out of the book if you are somewhat familiar with Python and the NumPy and matplotlib libraries.
* [Machine Learning In Action](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Machine-Learning-In-Action): An unique book that blends the foundational theories of machine learning with the practical realities of building tools for everyday data analysis. You'll use the flexible Python programming language to build programs that implement algorithms for data classification, forecasting, recommendations, and higher-level features like summarization and simplification.
* [Python Data Science Handbook](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Python-DataScience-Handbook): For many researchers, Python is a first-class tool mainly because of its libraries for storing, manipulating, and gaining insight from data. Several resources exist for individual pieces of this data science stack, but only with the *Python Data Science Handbook* do you get them all — IPython, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn, and other related tools. Working scientists and data crunchers familiar with reading and writing Python code will find this comprehensive desk reference ideal for tackling day-to-day issues: manipulating, transforming, and cleaning data; visualizing different types of data; and using data to build statistical or machine learning models. Quite simply, this is the must-have reference for scientific computing in Python.
* [Doing Data Science - Straight Talk From The Front Line](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Doing-Data-Science-Straight-Talk-From-The-Front-Line): Now that people are aware that data can make the difference in an election or a business model, data science as an occupation is gaining ground. But how can you get started working in a wide-ranging, interdisciplinary field that’s so clouded in hype? This insightful book, based on Columbia University’s Introduction to Data Science class, tells you what you need to know. In many of these chapter-long lectures, data scientists from companies such as Google, Microsoft, and eBay share new algorithms, methods, and models by presenting case studies and the code they use. If you’re familiar with linear algebra, probability, and statistics, and have programming experience, this book is an ideal introduction to data science.
* [Machine Learning For Finance](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Machine-Learning-For-Finance): *Machine Learning for Finance* explores new advances in machine learning and shows how they can be applied across the financial sector, including in insurance, transactions, and lending. It explains the concepts and algorithms behind the main machine learning techniques and provides example Python code for implementing the models yourself. The book is based on Jannes Klaas' experience of running machine learning training courses for financial professionals. Rather than providing ready-made financial algorithms, the book focuses on the advanced ML concepts and ideas that can be applied in a wide variety of ways. The book shows how machine learning works on structured data, text, images, and time series. It includes coverage of generative adversarial learning, reinforcement learning, debugging, and launching machine learning products. It discusses how to fight bias in machine learning and ends with an exploration of Bayesian inference and probabilistic programming.
* [Practical Statistics for Data Science](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/Practical-Statistics-For-Data-Science): Statistical methods are a key part of of data science, yet very few data scientists have any formal statistics training. Courses and books on basic statistics rarely cover the topic from a data science perspective. This practical guide explains how to apply various statistical methods to data science, tells you how to avoid their misuse, and gives you advice on what's important and what's not. Many data science resources incorporate statistical methods but lack a deeper statistical perspective. If you’re familiar with the R programming language, and have some exposure to statistics, this quick reference bridges the gap in an accessible, readable format.
* [A/B Testing](https://github.com/khanhnamle1994/cracking-the-data-science-interview/tree/master/EBooks/AB-Testing): Authors Dan Siroker and Pete Koomen are cofounders of Optimizely, the leading A/B testing platform used by more than 5,000 organizations across the world. *A/B Testing: The Most Powerful Way to Turn Clicks Into Customers* offers best practices and lessons learned from more than 300,000 experiments run by Optimizely customers.
